GWB, 65

How could it, otherwise, have been possible for sheer nothingness to
have acquired by itself the worthiness and capacity to emerge from its
state of non-existence into the realm of being?

SWAB, 47

Then how could it be possible for a contingent reality, that is, man,
to understand the nature of that pre-existent Essence, the Divine
Being?  The difference in station between man and the Divine Reality
is thousands upon thousands of times greater than the difference
between vegetable and animal.  And that which a human being would
conjure up in his mind is but the fanciful image of his human
condition, it doth not encompass God's reality but rather is
encompassed by it.  That is, man graspeth his own illusory
conceptions, but the Reality of Divinity can never be grasped: It,
Itself, encompasseth all created things, and all created things are in
Its grasp.  That Divinity which man doth imagine for himself existeth
only in his mind, not in truth.  Man, however, existeth both in his
mind and in truth; thus man is greater than that fanciful reality
which he is able to imagine.

GDM

Hast thou not heard: "No change is there in God's creation"? [Qur'án
30:30] Hast thou not read: "No change canst thou find in God's mode of
dealing"? [Qur'án 48:23] Hast thou not borne witness to the truth: "No
difference wilt thou see in the creation of the God of Mercy"? [Qur'án
67:3] Yea, by My Lord! They that dwell within this Ocean, they that
ride upon this Ark, witness no change in the creation of God and
behold no differences upon His earth.

GDM, 30

In his journey he seeth all differences return to a single word and
all allusions culminate in a single point. Unto this beareth witness
he who sailed upon the ark of fire and followed the inmost path to the
pinnacle of glory in the realm of immortality: "Knowledge is one
point, which the foolish have multiplied." [From Hadíth] This is the
station that hath been alluded to in the tradition: "I am He, Himself,
and He is I, Myself, except that I am that I am, and He is that He
is." [From Hadíth]
